Everything was going swimmingly until I took it into my head to start apologising.

I'd been to the station at Kensal Rise before. The original time, back when I was stupid, and several after that. I had watched from the far dark end of the platform as the two figures boarded the carriage together, but I'd always held back, unwilling to get involved.

Time-travel, right? It's all about belting back and forth, either changing human history by bumping off genocidal maniacs or changing human history by stopping someone buying the last Daily Sport in the shop.

Nah. It's about beetling back to the newsagents to buy the first copy of 2000AD - the one with the wee plastic frisbee-alike on the front. The going back to the week after to bag the one that came with the set of bionic stickers. After that, well, more of the same and a minor ebay session - hoofing yourself back to the seventies does tend to make the electric meter run a bit warm - before a trip to the Rough Trade shop for a couple of copies of Mute001 and FAC-28, then off to Probe Records for some abuse from Burns before ending up at the ICA for the Severed Heads/Danielle Dax/Hula gig.

For most people, that's enough. You fill in the gaps in your stuff collection, go to a couple of events that you read about the week after and thought 'well, if only..' and then you go for a holiday in your own past. It's the tabloid mindset. Things were better at some indeterminate point in the past that usually coincides with summer holidays and the tail-end of primary school.

I went. It wasn't quiet. I had to buy a rotbox of a Cortina for cash from some bloke up round the back of Leckhampton so I could get about.

Cash, right? You just don't think about it. Put card in machine and money comes out, wherever you are on the planet. Apart from America now and Cheltenham in 1975. So I had to wander round my flat, digging through the boxes of redundant electronics and piles of books to try and find something that might have monetary value forty years ago. In the end, a copy of the Racing Post and a visit to William Hill during Gold Cup week provided the answer, after a couple of scrap tellies from the council tip provided the working capital. Hurrah for the Phillips KT3 chassis.

I meandered out to Nolton Haven, wedged a head-sized pebble behind one of the rear wheels to compensate for the lack of handbrake and then sat and stared out at the tankers queueing up for Milford Haven for a long time. Now what? I was on holiday in my own past and it wasn't... anything. I was strongly tempted to haul out my mobile and look at everything through a hipster-cam filter, just to see if it became more real with some artificial patina added.

I stopped in the present for six months after that.

	* * *
	
The problem with, well, any sort of travel is that it doesn't take very long for the essential horror and/or tedium of the process to fade away and be replaced by a hankering to do it again; 'That drive up to Eagle River was jolly scenic,' you might say to yourself, 'and wasn't it quaint that we disturbed the waitress in the pizza shop making out with her boyfriend. What luck that they turned out to be into indie-rock and kept the place open so we could drink beer and talk about bands.'

Rather than 'I drove that hateful Chevy for about six bloody hours through a pine forest and just when I'd got so bored with the sight of trees that roadkill was a welcome diversion, there was some more forest. Then when we stopped I was so broken by the driving that I had to stagger about outside the motel like a drunk person in a bouncy castle. And Eagle River is the middle of sodding nowhere so there's nothing to do after nine at night but find someone to shag in the food-preparation area. Was that actually mayonnaise on that bloody salad, because I have my doubts.'

Worse, you get it into your head that because you've already been to Pembrokeshire and/or 1975, you should go further afield so as to really get into the travelling experience.

Travel, right? It makes you very stupid indeed. 

I found Dave in the back bar of the New Old Inn. He was wearing brown. A lot of brown.

"What?" he said, since I had paused slightly too long in the admiration of his outfit and it had moved from 'blokey regard' to 'mildly sinister'.

"I didn't know you LARP types were into re-enacting OU Maths modules from 1973. Is there a rulebook, or d'you just work it out longhand from old copies of Radio Times?" I said.

"Away and fuck yerself, geek-boy. I have been making trinkets for goths who hate music."

I put down my pint. "Isn't that most of them?"

He rolled his eyes.

"Oh, my aching sides. You should be on the stage instead of bothering honest artisans who've gone for a quiet pint after a hard afternoon's brazing."

"Is there money in it?" I said. It being the obvious question, and because Dave starting to look a little snakey. I really do bring out the best in people sometimes.

He scowled. "Yes. But."

"But?" I echoed.

"You can't get the parts. I mean, there are those that don't care and will have something that turns up by the container-load from the Shenzen co-prosperity zone. But so much of the quality stuff ended up in landfill when bakelite phones and proper typewriters got lobbed out by the skip-load when your bloody tame computers arrived half-cocked from the factory. Mind, the worst are the bastards who'll buy working gear and then put a hammer through it to get the sprockets out... I tell you, if I could find a steady supply of dead clockwork kit, I'd be minted."

Which is how I discovered Steampunk and a second career as an inter-dimensional clockwork smuggler.

	* * *
	
The 1899 version of Cheltenham didn't smell that much different from the 1975 edition. More horse manure and less oil-burning A-series, but still overlaid by the glorious smell of malt from the brewery. There are two types of people who grew up in the town - people who love the smell of the beer making process and complete bastards. I walked in what I hoped was the direction of the lower high street and tried not to look like some freak impostor from an impossible future. I really needn't have worried. By the time the second small boy had been despatched on an iron bicycle loaded with expired clockwork, it was clear that if the daft bugger with the funny accent wanted to pay cash money for scrap parts, no-one was going to stand in his way.

I was particularly pleased to discover several time-recorders. I think I felt that if I took the horrible devices away, they wouldn't be used to force a set of working stiffs in and out of a factory at the whim of some sod with a top hat and indoor plumbing.

Dave looked as if he were going to hug me when I dropped the first load off at his workshop. Thankfully the moment passed and he fell to cackling as he dug out mahogany-cased mechanism after mahogany-cased mechanism.

He gave me a shopping list for the second trip.

I was on my way back to my room at the Plough Hotel when I came across a commotion in the street. A big chap in shirtsleeves was giving his horse what-for with a whip. The animal resembled a toastrack and only seemed to be remaining upright out of confusion. I gripped my wallet. I could... I didn't know. Give the fellow ten bob to be about his business, or buy his horse, or... something. I caught sight of myself reflected in a shop window. Nice new set of tweeds and the sort of shave only available with a three-blade disposable. Who the hell did I think I was? I could stand on that corner handing out ten shilling notes for the rest of my life and someone would still ve having to make the choice between beating the horse he'd had for years or feeding his children.

Poverty tourism? Temporal arbitrage? Fuck those things, jointly and severally.

I dropped the second load off with Dave then walked into the New Old Inn to work my way down the real ale list.

Time-travel and drunken self-pity? Bad, bad idea. Don't do it.

This time I nipped onto the train as the doors were closing. Well, bounced off the door and ollied into a corner seat, but in my head I nipped.

I watched the pair of them. The thin youth with the long hair and the blonde girl who would about now be telling him that she was a dancer. He was nodding and looking politely interested, because if you've spent most of your teens breathing solder fumes while listening to angular post-punk you're not actually going to know when someone's trying to ask you out.

After a while, she gave up trying to push the conversation uphill. He blinked and smiled and said something about Gospel Oak being his stop.

When the train was moving again, I fell into the seat opposite.

"He's going to work it out in about half an hour," I said.

You don't talk to people on trains in London. You just don't. Not unless everyone's drunk or aliens are tractor-beaming the carriage into their mother-ship. I was favoured with a blank look that translated as 'Fuck off you drunken tosspot'.

I kept going. "And then he'll wonder about you on and off for the next few years and be annoyed about being an idiot."

"Is that..? No. Actually, just shut up," she said. "He seemed lonely. So I thought I'd talk to him. Human contact, y'know? And here you are trying to turn it into this massive thing. We were just talking. It was nice. And now, God, it's all about... Men!"


I took a hammer to the time-machine and sold Dave the parts in a wheelbarrow.
